
<head>
  <script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>
  <script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
    MathJax.Hub.Config({
      tex2jax: {
      skipTags: ['script', 'noscript', 'style', 'textarea', 'pre'],
      inlineMath: [['$','$']]
      }
    });
  </script>
</head>



# 动态图表描述

变化|动词
---|---
上升|rise,increase,climb,grow,jump,surge
下降|drop,fall,decline,decrease,dip,slide
保持不变|stand at ,remain virtually at,level off at,remain relatively constant

变化|副词（形容词同理）
---|---
轻微地|slightly,modestly
稳定地|gradually,steadily
巨大地|noticeably,significantly,remarkably,dramatically
快速地|rapidly,sharply,steeply

变化|上升|下降
---|---|---
动词|increase by 5%|decline by 5%
词+of|There was an increase of 5%|There was a decline of 5%
名次在句首|The growth was significant around 5%|The decline was dramatic about 5%
使用see|The 1990s saw an increase（uplift）in|Britain saw a steep drop in 
使用up或者down|The consumption reached 5 millionm,up 5% from 1 year ago|.....down5%
现在分词放在句中|The consumption was 5 million in 1990,rising to 6 million in 1996|sth,dropping to...
现在分词showing放句中|....,showing an increase of 5%...|showing a decrease of ....
词组|on the rise |in decline 
趋势| there was an upward trend |the downward trend

线状图（line graph）

饼状图（pie charts ）或者其他占比例类的数量描述用：the proportion of sth

表格（table）

**写作思路：**

（1）开头改写题目，描述图像

（2）描述特征，做对比（一般是年代之间对比） 尽量避免用词重复

（3）总结,分析一下数据而不是只描述趋势

类型|连词
---|---
举例|for instance/example
类似的|similarly
分析|It's worth noting that;...indicate that
占比|The most contributor



修改前：

The table shows the findings of the amount of waste produced by different countries.

Based on the table, we can see the amount of waste increased in many countries like Japan, the US , Ireland and Poland from 1980 to 2000. The US saw a huge and dramatic climb in the amount of waste, reaching 4005 millions of tons in 2000 from 2003 millions of tons in 1980 and 3004 tons in 1990. In terms of Japan, it had an upward trend with the amount of waste increasing from 44 millions of tons in 1980 to 52 millions of tons in 2000. As for Poland, its amount of waste increased slightly from 2 millions of tons in 1980 to 5 millions of tons in 2000. Ireland had a modest rise in the amount of waste too, increasing to 3 millions of tons in 2000 from 0.2 millions of tons in 1980. 

However, Korea saw a deep decline in the waste amount, dropping to 19 millions of tons in 2000 from 31 millions of tons in 1990. Portugal leveled off at nearly 10 millions of tons from 1980 to 2000.

The three country Korea, Japan and the US were the major source of waste though Korea reduced a lot waste. What’s more, the amount of waste from America was even more than the amount that other countries combined.

修改后：

Paragraph 1:

**The data in the table indicates that** many countries **experienced** an increase in the amount of waste produced between 1980 and 2000.**For instance,** the United States saw a dramatic climb in waste production, increasing from 2003 million tons in 1980 to 4005 million tons in 2000. **Similarly,** Japan's waste production increased from 44 million tons in 1980 to 52 million tons in 2000. Ireland **also** had a notable rise in waste production, increasing from 0.2 million tons in 1980 to 3 million tons in 2000, while Poland's waste production increased slightly from 2 million tons to 5 million tons **over the same period.**

Paragraph 2:

However, the data also shows that some countries experienced a decline in waste production. **For example,** Korea's waste production dropped from 31 million tons in 1990 to 19 million tons in 2000, **indicating** a positive trend towards reducing waste. Portugal's waste production remained relatively constant at around 10 million tons from 1980 to 2000.

Paragraph 3:

**It is worth noting that** the United States, Japan, and Korea were the major sources of waste production, with these three countries accounting for a significant percentage of the total waste produced worldwide. Despite Korea's reduction in waste production, the amount of waste generated by the United States was still more than all other countries combined.

Conclusion:

In conclusion, the data from the table indicates that there were notable trends in waste production across different countries from 1980 to 2000. While some countries experienced a decrease in waste production, others saw a significant increase. The United States, Japan, and Korea were major contributors to worldwide waste production, indicating the need for more sustainable waste management practices to address this global issue.






# 静态图表描述

不同的情况|例句
---|---
比较主句的比较句|Country A has a bigger population than country B.
比较定语的比较句|The population of country A is bigger than of country B.
compared with, in contrast to|compared with A,B has a ....
similar to, the same as, different from|The population of A is different from that of B


倍数|动态图|静态图
---|---|---
两倍|doubled/increased twofold<br>例句：The rate increased twofold to 4%.|twice<br>例句:The rate of A is (twice as high as)/(higher than) that of B.
三倍|tripled/increased threefold|three times
四倍|quadrupled/increased fourfold|four times
五倍及以上|increased fivefold/sixfold|five times.six times

表达的分类|24岁以下的人|30到39岁的人|超过50岁的人
---|---|---|---
aged...|people aged under 24|people aged 30-39<br>people aged betwwen 30 and 39|people aged over 50
in|/|people in their thirties|people in their fifties
age group|under-24 age group|30-39 age group|over-50 age group
...year-old|under-24-year-old people|30-39-year-old people|over-50-year-old people


**表示对比** ： in contrast to;compared with;higher than ......


# 流程图描述

类型|工序图|生物生长图
谓语|以被动语态为主|以主动语态较多
时间|一般不会出现|可能描述生长阶段
对比|有几种加工方法的工序要对比|不同阶段的对比

类型|工序图|生物生长图
时态|一般是一般现在时|一般现在时
确定第一步是什么|一般是原料收集|一般是生物出生或产卵的时候
分段|写两段从中间分段|写两段从中间分段
总结|整个流程多少步，简单描述<br>概括不同步骤的主要变化规律或特征


**工序图词汇**

收集|gather,collect,harvest
传送|deliver,send,transfer,transport
转化|convert into,transform into
混合|mix,blend
使用|utlise,employ,use,apply
扔掉|remove,throw away,dispose of 
生产，产生，制造|produce,generate,create,make
加热，弄干，降温|heat,dry,cool,freeze
压缩|condenss,compress
加工|process
装罐，包装|can,pack,package

**生长图词汇**

产软|lay eggs,produce eggs,deposit eggs
孵化|hatch eggs,incubate eggs
破卵而出|break the shell,come out of eggs,emerge from eggs,hatch from eggs,egg breaks,egg cracks
变大|grow older,is reared
成年|reach maturity,grow to maturity,attain/reach maturity/adulthood,come to maturity,mature to adult,fully matured

**阶段描述连词**

第一阶段|at the first stage<br>the first/initial step<br>the early/first/initial phase<br>at the larval stage（在幼虫的阶段）,life stages（生命的阶段）
下一阶段|at the next/second stage,enter/reach the next stage,mark the stage of ,the next step,the second phase
最后的阶段|at the final stage<br>the final/last step<br>the final/last phase<br>at the adult/mature stage
总结|go through ,consist of 


表示随后，下一步：then,afterward,subsequently,next

最终：finally,eventually

每个阶段的时间描述：

it takes () to;This stage lasts for ();After a period of ();For();During a () period

增加句子变化的方法：

并列句<br>and,or| .... and then....
状语从句<br>after,before,until,once|...before...
定语从句<br>where,in which,after which|Tea are washed and then put in a container where they are dried


## 剑十，2（听力6.5，阅读7.5）

单词|词意
---|---
predominant|占领主导地位的
forge ahead|锐意进取

作文修改前：

As we can see from the table, the sales of Fairtrade-labelled coffee increased in the several countries. There was an increase of almost 20 times in the UK getting to 20 millions of euros and 2 times in the Switzerland getting to 6 millions of euros.There was not much increase in the sales of Denmark, Belgium and Sweden. In Denmark it's  1.8 millions of euros in 1994 to 2 millions of euros in 2004 and 1 million in 1994 to 1.7 million in 2004 in Belgium. Also it's 0.8 million in 1994 to 1 million to 2004 in Sweden.
As for the sales of bananas in the several countries, UK,Switzerland and Belgium had an increase in the sales from 1999 to 2004. Sales nearly tripled in Switzerland from 15m to 47m，five times in the UK from 1m to 5.5m and eight times in the Belgium from 0.6m to 4m. The sales declined in Sweden and Denmark from 1.8m to 1m and 2m to 0.9m. We can see that there was a great demand for bananas in Switzerland and a growing market for bananas in UK and Belgium. 

作文修改后：


**Based on the table** , **it can be observed that** the sales of Fairtrade-labelled coffee increased in some European countries **over the years**. **In the UK, the sales of Fairtrade-labelled coffee increased from 1 million euros in 1999 to 20 million euros in 2004, which is almost 20 times the previous amount.** In Switzerland, the sales increased from 3 million euros in 1999 to 6 million euros in 2004, which is twice the previous amount. **However,** there was not much increase in the sales of Denmark, Belgium and Sweden. In Denmark, the sales increased from 1.8 million euros in 1999 to 2 million euros in 2004. In Belgium, the sales increased from 1 million euros in 1999 to 1.7 million euros in 2004. In Sweden, the sales increased from 0.8 million euros in 1999 to 1 million euros in 2004.

**In terms of Fairtrade-labelled bananas**, there was a great demand for them in Switzerland, the UK and Belgium. The sales of Fairtrade-labelled bananas nearly tripled in Switzerland **from 15 million euros in 1999 to 47 million euros in 2004**. In the UK, the sales increased five times from 1 million euros in 1999 to 5.5 million euros in 2004, and in Belgium, the sales increased eight times from 0.6 million euros in 1999 to 4 million euros in 2004. However, the sales declined in Sweden from 1.8 million euros in 1999 to 1 million euros in 2004, and in Denmark from 2 million euros in 1999 to 0.9 million euros in 2004. **Overall, this suggests that there was a growing market for Fairtrade-labelled bananas in some European countries.**

